about_me.md, before:

+++
title = "About"
rss = "About this website"
+++

@def title = "Guy F. Sutton | Home"
@def tags = ["syntax", "code"]

# Education

| Degree | Year | Institution |
|:-------|:-----|:------------|
| **PhD**, Entomology | 2020 | Rhodes University, South Africa |
| **MSc**, Entomology | 2017 | Rhodes University, South Africa |
|**BSc (Honours)**, Entomology | 2015 | Rhodes University, South Africa |
|**BSc**, Microbiology and Entomology | 2014 | Rhodes University, South Africa |

# Work History

🏢 **Research Entomologist (Centre for Biological Control, Rhodes University)** ~~~<span class="jobdates">(2019 - Current)</span>~~~
- Led multiple projects developing biological control of invasive weeds, focusing on controlling invasive African grasses 
- Developed and taught numerous undergrauate and postgraduate [courses and workshops](https://github.com/guysutton?tab=repositories) on quantitative methods in ecology (using R and Julia)
- Developed open-source software packages for analysing ecological datasets, e.g. [ThermalSampleR](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/ThermalSampleR/index.html), and [SPEDE-sampler](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1755-0998.13591)

# Peer-reviewed publications 

I have published [17 peer-reviewed scientific articles](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&tzom=-120&user=UBTOmqYAAAAJ&authuser=1) to date, which have been cited over 115 times. My current [H-index](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&tzom=-120&user=UBTOmqYAAAAJ&authuser=1) is 9. 

- 1. **Sutton, G.F.** & Martin, G.D. (2022): Testing MaxEnt model performance in a novel geographic region using an intentionally introduced insect. *Ecological Modelling* 473:e110139. [PDF](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S030438002200240X)

Commit message:

Add full publication list to about_me.md

about_me.md, after:

+++
title = "About"
rss = "About this website"
+++

@def title = "Guy F. Sutton | Home"
@def tags = ["syntax", "code"]

# Background 

My name is Guy Sutton. I am a Research Entomologist at the Centre for Biological Control at Rhodes University (South Africa). My research primarily involves finding and developing insect biological control agents for managing invasive alien plants, with a particular focus on managing invasive African grasses that have become invasive globally. Moreover, I passionate about developing quantitative methods and software for answering ecological questions, bridging the spheres of statistics, software development, coding and ecology. 

Please find my [CV](https://github.com/guysutton/cv/blob/master/script_make_cv.pdf) here. 

# Education

| Degree | Year | Institution |
|:-------|:-----|:------------|
| **PhD**, Entomology | 2020 | Rhodes University, South Africa |
| **MSc**, Entomology | 2017 | Rhodes University, South Africa |
|**BSc (Honours)**, Entomology | 2015 | Rhodes University, South Africa |
|**BSc**, Microbiology and Entomology | 2014 | Rhodes University, South Africa |

# Work History

🏢 **Research Entomologist (Centre for Biological Control, Rhodes University)** ~~~<span class="jobdates">(2019 - Current)</span>~~~
- Led multiple projects developing biological control of invasive weeds, focusing on controlling invasive African grasses 
- Developed and taught numerous undergrauate and postgraduate [courses and workshops](https://github.com/guysutton?tab=repositories) on quantitative methods in ecology (using R and Julia)
- Developed open-source software packages for analysing ecological datasets, e.g. [ThermalSampleR](https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/ThermalSampleR/index.html), and [SPEDE-sampler](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1755-0998.13591)

# Peer-reviewed publications 

I have published [17 peer-reviewed scientific articles](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&tzom=-120&user=UBTOmqYAAAAJ&authuser=1) to date, which have been cited over 115 times. My current [H-index](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&tzom=-120&user=UBTOmqYAAAAJ&authuser=1) is 9. 

- 17. Manrakhan, A., Daneel, J-H., Serfontein, L., Mauda, E., **Sutton, G.F.**, & Hattingh, V. (2023). Efficacy of an existing *Ceratitis capitata* (Diptera: Tephritidae) cold disinfestation treatment schedule for *Ceratitis cosyra*. *Journal of Economic Entomology*, *In Press* (2023/03/11). 
- 16. **Sutton, G.F.**, & Martin, G.D. (2022). Testing MaxEnt model performance in a novel geographic region using an intentionally introduced insect. *Ecological Modelling* 473:e110139. [PDF](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S030438002200240X)
- 15. Moore, S.D., et al., **Sutton, G.F.**, & Hattingh, V. (2022). Efficacy of various low temperatures and exposure time combinations for *Thaumatotibia leucotreta* (Meyrick) (Lepidoptera: Tortricidae). *Journal of Economic Entomology* 115: 1115-1128. [PDF](https://academic.oup.com/jee/article-abstract/115/4/1115/6583346)
- 14. van Steenderen, C.V.S., & **Sutton, G.F.** (2022). SPEDE-sampler: an R Shiny application to assess how methodological choices and taxon-sampling can affect Generalised Mixed Yule Coalescent (GMYC) output and interpretation. *Molecular Ecology Resources* 22: 2054-2069. [PDF](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/1755-0998.13591)
- 13. Canavan, K., Canavan, S., Clark, V.R., Gwate, O., Richardson, D.M., **Sutton, G.F.**, & Martin, G.D. (2021). The alien plants that threaten South Africa’s mountain ecosystems. *Land* 10: e1393. [PDF](https://www.mdpi.com/2073-445X/10/12/1393)
- 12. **Sutton, G.F.**, Bownes, A., Visser, V., Mapaura, A., & Canavan, K. (2021). Progress and prospects for the biological control of invasive alien grasses (Poaceae) in South Africa. *African Entomology* 29: 837-858. [PDF](https://journals.co.za/doi/abs/10.4001/003.029.0837)
- 11. Olckers, T., Coetzee, J.A., Egli, D., Martin, G.D., Paterson, I.D., **Sutton, G.F.**, & Wood, A.R. (2021). Biological control of South African plants that are invasive elsewhere in the world. *African Entomology* 29: 1005-1029.[PDF](https://journals.co.za/doi/abs/10.4001/003.029.1005)
- 10. Canavan, K., Hill, M.P., Ivey, P., **Sutton, G.F.**, Paterson, I.D. (2021). Prioritisation of targets for weed biological control III: A tool to identify the next targets for biological control in South Africa and set priorities for resource allocation. *Biocontrol Science and Technology* 31: 584-601. [PDF](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/09583157.2021.1918638)
- 9. Chikowore, G., Mutamiswa, R., Martin, G.D., **Sutton, G.F.**, & Chidawanyika, F. (2021). Reduction of grazing index in high elevation grasslands following Black locust invasion in South Africa. *Rangeland Ecology and Management* 76: 109-117. [PDF](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1550742421000221)
- 8. **Sutton, G.F.**, Canavan, K., Day, M.D., & Paterson, I.D. (2021). Field-based ecological studies to assess prospective biological control agents for invasive alien plants: an example from giant rat’s tail grass. *Journal of Applied Ecology* 58: 1043-1054. [PDF](https://besjournals.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/1365-2664.13834)
- 7. Martin, G.D., Magengelele, N.L., Paterson, I.D., **Sutton, G.F.** (2020). Climate modelling suggests a review of the legal status of Brazilian pepper Schinus terebinthifolia in South Africa is required. *South African Journal of Botany* 132: 95-102. [PDF](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S025462992030123X)
- 6. **Sutton, G.F.**, Canavan, K., Day, M.D., Den Breeyen, A., Cristofaro, M., McConnachie, A., Goolsby, J.A., & Paterson, I.D. (2019). Grasses as suitable targets for classical weed biological control. *BioControl* 64: 605-622. [PDF](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10526-019-09968-8)
- 5. **Sutton, G.F.** (2019). Searching for a needle in a haystack: where to survey for climatically-matched biological control agents for two grasses (*Sporobolus* spp.) invading Australia. *Biological Control* 129: 37-44. [PDF](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1049964418306480)
- 4. **Sutton, G.F.**, Klein, H., & Paterson, I.D. (2018). Evaluating the efficacy of *Hypogeococcus* sp. as a biological control agent of the cactaceous weed *Cereus jamacaru* in South Africa. *BioControl* 63: 493-503. [PDF](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10526-018-9887-3)
- 3. **Sutton, G.F.**, Paterson, I.D., & Paynter, Q. (2017). Genetic matching of invasive populations of the African tulip tree, *Spathodea campanulata* Beauv. (Bignoniaceae), to their native distribution: maximising the likelihood of selecting hostcompatible biological control agents. *Biological Control* 114: 167-175. [PDF](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1049964417301810)
- 2. **Sutton, G.F.**, Paterson, I.D., Compton, S.G., & Paynter, Q. (2017). Predicting the risk of non-target damage to a close relative of a target weed using sequential no- choice tests, paired-choice tests and olfactory discrimination experiments. *Biocontrol Science and Technology* 27: 364-377. [PDF](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/09583157.2017.1291907)
- 1. **Sutton, G.F.**, Compton, S.G., & Coetzee, J.A. (2016). Naturally occurring phytopathogens enhance biological control of water hyacinth (*Eichhornia crassipes*) by *Megamelus scutellaris* (Hemiptera: Delphacidae), even in eutrophic water. *Biological Control* 103: 261-268. [PDF](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1049964416301840)
